*guides-java-project*


Creating A Java Project
***********************

The goal of this guide is to walk you through creating your first java
project via eclim.


Creating a project
==================

The first step is to open a Vim window and create the project by
executing:

>

   :ProjectCreate /path/to/my_project -n java

<


The path supplied will be the path to the root of your project.  This
path may or may not exist.  If it does not exist it will be created
for you.  If the path does exist, it will be examined for any source
directories or libraries (jar files) that should be included in the
project's classpath.  In either case the end result will be the
creation of a .project and .classpath file in the supplied directory.
At this time, the .project file is nothing that you need to worry
about maintaining as it is purely for Eclipse.  The .classpath file on
the other hand, is used to manage your project's dependencies,
including dependencies on other projects, other libraries, and the
location of your source directories.  For more on maintaining this
file see the classpath docs (|vim-java-classpath|).

Once you've created your project you can use the :ProjectList command
to list the available projects and you should see your newly created
one in the list.

>

   my_project - open   - /path/to/my_project

<


The :ProjectList result is in the form of projectName - (open|closed)
- /project/root/path.  When you create projects, the last path element
will be used for the project name.  If that element contains any
spaces, these will be converted to underscores.


Editing project settings
========================

After creating a project, the next thing you'll probably want to do is
edit your project's settings.  To do this you can use the
|:ProjectSettings| command.  If your current Vim window's working
directory is at or under the project's root directory then you can
execute the :ProjectSettings with no arguments, otherwise you will
need to supply the project name.

>

   :ProjectSettings projectName

<


After your first time editing your project's settings, a .settings
directory will be created in the project's root directory.  In there
are the project's preferences files.  You should avoid editing these
files directly and stick to using :ProjectSettings to update them.

Note: If you have only one project or many projects that share the same
  settings you can use the |:EclimSettings| command instead to edit
  the global settings.  These global settings will apply to any
  project that has not overridden them with values via
  :ProjectSettings.


Your project's classpath
========================

In the first section, we mentioned that when a project is created a
.classpath file is also created at the root directory of the project.
If you did not create a project from an existing project directory
(one containing source files, etc.), then your next step will be to
tell Eclipse where you plan to store your source files.

For the purpose of this example we will assume that you will store
your source files at:

>

   /path/to/my_project/src/java

<


So, given that location, you will need to open the file
/path/to/my_project/.classpath in Vim.

>

   vim /path/to/my_project/.classpath

<


To add the source directory simply execute the following

>

   :NewSrcEntry src/java

<


This will add the necessary entry to the end of your .classpath file.
The contents of this file should now look something like this:

>

   <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
   <classpath>
     <classpathentry kind="con" path="org.eclipse.jdt.launching.JRE_CONTAINER"/>
     <classpathentry kind="output" path="bin"/>
     <classpathentry kind="src" path="src/java"/>
   </classpath>

<


Now that your source directory is setup, you can proceed to edit java
files in that directory and make use of the java functionality
(|vim-java-index|) provided by eclim.

vim:ft=eclimhelp