*guides-development*


Eclim Developers Guide
**********************

This guide is intended mostly for those who wish to contribute to
eclim by fixing bugs or adding new functionality, but the first
section is also useful for users who would like to use the latest
development version of eclim.

*development-build*


Checking out the code and building it.
======================================

1. Check out the code:

   >

      $ git clone git://eclim.git.sourceforge.net/gitroot/eclim

   <


   Once you have a local git repository you can utilize the extensive
   local git functionality allowing you to commit code locally, create
   local branches, etc.  For guidelines on managing patches and
   submitting them, please see the patch guide below.

1. Build eclim:

   >

      $ cd eclim
      $ ant -Declipse.home=<your eclipse home dir>

   <


   Note: If your eclipse home path contains a space, be sure to quote it:

        > ant "-Declipse.home=C:/Program Files/eclipse"

   This will build and deploy eclim to your eclipse and vim
   directories.  If you don't want to supply the eclipse home
   directory every time, you can set the environment variable
   ECLIM_ECLIPSE_HOME which the build script will then utilize.

   Note: If your vimfiles directory is not located at the default location
     for your OS, then you can specify the location using the
     "vim.files" property:

        >

           $ ant -Dvim.files=<your vimfiles dir>

        <


   By default the above ant call will build all the eclim plugins,
   requiring you to have all the related dependencies already
   installed in your eclipse distribution.  However, if you only want
   a subset of the eclim plugins to be built, you can specify so using
   the 'plugins' system property:

   >

      # build only ant and jdt (java) support
      $ ant -Dplugins=ant,jdt

      # build only pdt (php) support (requires wst)
      $ ant -Dplugins=wst,pdt

   <


   Note: On windows you will need to quote the plugins argument if you are
     building more than one plugin:

        > ant "-Dplugins=ant,jdt"

   The currently available list of plugin names include:

   - jdt: java support using the eclipse jdt.

   - ant: ant support.

   - maven: maven support.

   - wst: web development support using the eclipse wst.

   - cdt: c/c++ support using the eclipse cdt.

   - pdt: php support using the eclipse pdt.

*development-patches*


Managing / Submitting Patches
=============================

Before you start writing any code you should first familiarize
yourself with the preferred means of submitting patches, and if you
plan on contributing anything non-trivial, the preferred means of
managing those patches.

*development-patches-submitting*

Submitting Patches

Any patches you submit should be in the form of full diff against the
current git head:

   >

      $ git diff origin > myfeature.patch

   <


Or using StGit (described below):

   >

      $ stg show myfeature > myfeature.patch

   <


If you use git, without stgit, please be aware that the diff will
generate a patch entry for every commit you've made. So unless each
commit represents a change that you are willing to submit
independently of the others, please consolidate all your commits for a
given patch into a single commit prior to generating the patch file
(using git rebase -i for instance).  If you don't do so then the patch
file will contain all your trial and errors, dead ends, etc. and
evaluating a patch with an entire history like that can be very
difficult.

*development-patches-managing*

Managing Patch Development

Although you can manage patches and format "clean" patch files by
manually rewriting git's history or juggling some local branches, the
recommended tool for managing patches is Stacked Git (StGit).  StGit
makes creating, managing, and submitting patches a lot easier than
doing so manually.  If you decide to not use StGit, then you might
want to read the section in the git manual regarding managing of patch
series.

*development-patch-example*

Example Patch Workflow

To fully illustrate creating and submitting a patch, let's walk
through making a small change, from start to finish.  In this example
we will modify the :PingEclim command to print "Pong" along with the
version numbers normally returned.

This example will use the recommend tools, git and stgit.

1. First clone the eclim repository:

   >

      $ git clone git://eclim.git.sourceforge.net/gitroot/eclim

   <


1. Initialize stgit for the eclim repository:

   >

      $ cd eclim
      $ stg init

   <


1. Start a new stgit patch:

   >

      $ stg new -m "Alter :PingEclim to print 'Pong'" pong

   <


1. Edit the file PingCommand.java:

   >

      $ vim src/java/org/eclim/command/admin/PingCommand.java
      ...

      $ git diff
      diff --git a/src/java/org/eclim/command/admin/PingCommand.java b/src/java/org/eclim/command/admin/PingCommand.java
      index bb5c569..b2f2ebc 100644
      --- a/src/java/org/eclim/command/admin/PingCommand.java
      +++ b/src/java/org/eclim/command/admin/PingCommand.java
      @@ -65,7 +65,7 @@ public class PingCommand
             version = eclim_version + '\n' + eclipse_version;
           }

      -    return version;
      +    return "Pong!\n" + version;
         }

         private String getVersion()

   <


1. Test the change:

   >

      $ ant
      ...

      $ $ECLIPSE_HOME/eclimd
      ...

      $ vim -c ":PingEclim"
      ...
      Pong!
      eclim   1.4.4
      eclipse 3.4.2
      Press ENTER or type command to continue

   <


1. Commit the change to the patch:

   >

      $ stg refresh
      Checking for changes in the working directory ... done
      Refreshing patch "pong" ... done

   <


1. Create a patch file:

   >

      $ stg show > pong.patch

   <


At this point all that is left is submitting the patch to the eclim
development group.

Pulling Updates

   As some point you'll need to pull updates from the remote git
   repository.  If you're using git without stgit, then you can pull
   updates in the standard git fashion:

      >

         $ git pull

      <


   If you're using stgit on top of git, then the preferred method is
   to pull via stgit:

      >

         $ stg pull -m

      <



What's Next
===========

Now that you're familiar with the basics of building and patching
eclim, the next step is to familiarize yourself with the eclim
architecture and to review the detailed docs on how new features are
added.

All of that and more can be found in the eclim development docs
(|development-index|).

vim:ft=eclimhelp