*guides-c-project*


Creating A C/C++ Project
************************

The goal of this guide is to walk you through creating your first c or
c++ project via eclim.


Creating a project
==================

The first step is to open a Vim window and create the project by
executing one of:

>

   :ProjectCreate /path/to/my_c_project -n c
   :ProjectCreate /path/to/my_cpp_project -n c++

<


The path supplied will be the path to the root of your project.  This
path may or may not exist.  If it does not exist it will be created
for you.

Once you've created your project you can use the :ProjectList command
to list the available projects and you should see your newly created
one in the list.

>

   my_c_project - open   - /path/to/my_c_project

<


The :ProjectList result is in the form of projectName - (open|closed)
- /project/root/path.  When you create projects, the last path element
will be used for the project name.  If that element contains any
spaces, these will be converted to underscores.

Once you have a project, you can then configure your project by
setting the location of your source files and add any necessary
include paths. To do so, start by opening the project configuration by
executing:

>

   :CProjectConfigs my_c_project

<


This will open a temporary buffer which displays some of the core
configuration values supported by the eclipse cdt:

>

   Config: Linux GCC

     Sources: |add|
       dir:    /

     Tool: GCC C Compiler
       Includes: |add|
       Symbols:  |add|

     Tool: GCC Assembler
       Includes: |add|

<


Under the "Sources" section you should see a default source directory
entry of "/", representing your project root.  If you'd like to
instead use a "src/" directory, you can first create a "src" directory
in your project root:

>

   $ mkdir src

<


Once the directory exists you can then move the cursor over the
"|add|" link on the "Sources" section and hit <enter>.  When prompted
for a directory, enter "src" and hit <enter>.  At this point it will
prompt for any excludes, but for the purposes of this guide, you can
simply hit enter without supplying a value.

Now your sources should have both the project root and "src" listed.
You can now delete the root entry by moving your cursor over that line
and hitting D (shift-d).

If you have any include paths you wish to add, you can follow a
similar procedure to add them by moving your cursor over the relevant
"|add|" link and supply the proper project relative or absolute path
to the include path you wish to add.

Now that you have a c/c++ project created, you can now leverage the
various c/c++ features (|vim-c-index|) that eclim provides.

vim:ft=eclimhelp