*guides-python-project*


Creating A Python Project
*************************

The goal of this guide is to walk you through creating your first
python project via eclim.


Creating a project
==================

The first step is to open a Vim window and create the project by
executing:

>

   :ProjectCreate /path/to/my_project -n none

<


The path supplied will be the path to the root of your project.  This
path may or may not exist.  If it does not exist it will be created
for you.

Once you've created your project you can use the :ProjectList command
to list the available projects and you should see your newly created
one in the list.

>

   my_project - open   - /path/to/my_project

<


The :ProjectList result is in the form of projectName - (open|closed)
- /project/root/path.  When you create projects, the last path element
will be used for the project name.  If that element contains any
spaces, these will be converted to underscores.


Editing project settings
========================

After creating a project, the next thing you'll probably want to do is
edit your project's settings.  To do this you can use the
|:ProjectSettings| command.  If your current Vim window's working
directory is at or under the project's root directory then you can
execute the :ProjectSettings with no arguments, otherwise you will
need to supply the project name.

>

   :ProjectSettings projectName

<


After your first time editing your project's settings, a .settings
directory will be created in the project's root directory.  In there
are the project's preferences files.  You should avoid editing these
files directly and stick to using :ProjectSettings to update them.

Note: If you have only one project or many projects that share the same
  settings you can use the |:EclimSettings| command instead to edit
  the global settings.  These global settings will apply to any
  project that has not overridden them with values via
  :ProjectSettings.

Now that you have a project created, you can now leverage the various
python features (|vim-python-index|) that eclim provides.

vim:ft=eclimhelp