*vim-common-web*


Web Lookup Commands
*******************

Eclim provides a set of commands that allow you to open information in
the web browser or your choice.

*:OpenUrl*


OpenUrl
=======

The first of these commands is :OpenUrl which opens a url in your web
browser, or optionally in Vim via netrw (:help netrw).

When executing the command you may supply the url to open, or if
ommitted, it will open the url under the cursor.  By default all urls
will open in your web browser, but you may optionally configure a list
of url patterns to be opened via the netrw plugin.  The following
example is configured to open all dtd, xml, xsd, and text files via
netrw.

>

   let g:EclimOpenUrlInVimPatterns =
     \ [
       \ '\.\(dtd\|xml\|xsd\)$',
       \ '\.txt$',
     \ ]

<


For urls that match one of these patterns, you may also define how the
file is to be opened in Vim (split, edit, etc.).

>

   let g:EclimOpenUrlInVimAction = 'split'

<


If a url you want to open matches one of these patterns, but you want
to force it to be opened in your browser, you can supply a bang (!) to
force it to do so:

>

   :OpenUrl!

<



Configuration
=============

Vim Variables

*g:EclimOpenUrlInVimPatterns*

- g:EclimOpenUrlInVimPatterns (Default: []) - Defines a list of url
  patterns to open in Vim via netrw.

*g:EclimOpenUrlInVimAction*

- g:EclimOpenUrlInVimAction (Default: 'split') - Defines the command
  used to open files matched by g:EclimOpenUrlInVimPatterns.


Web Search Commands
===================

The remaining web lookup commands provide a means for looking up words
or phrases using some great online tools.

*:Google*

1. :Google [word ...] - This command is used to look up a word or
  phrase on google.com.  You can invoke it one of two ways.

  1. First by supplying the word or words to search for as arguments
     to the command.

     >
        :Google "vim eclim"
        :Google vim eclim
        :Google +vim -eclim

     <

     Note that you can supply the arguments to the command just as you
     would when using the search input via google's homepage, allowing
     you to utilize the full querying capabilities of google.

  1. The second method is to issue the command with no arguments. The
     command will then query google with the word under the cursor.

*:Clusty*

- :Clusty [word ...] - This command works just like the :Google
  command except it uses clusty.com as the search engine.  For those
  of you who have not heard of clusty, it is an excellent alternative
  to google which groups results into clusters, allowing you to
  quickly filter search results down to the topic you are looking for.
  It is a great place to go when google returns too many results that
  are difficult to sift through.

*:Wikipedia*

- :Wikipedia [word ...] - Again this command behaves like the previous
  two, but instead looks up the desired word or phrase on
  wikipedia.org, the great online encyclopedia.

*:Dictionary*

- :Dictionary [word] - This command is used to look up a word on
  dictionary.reference.com.  You can either supply the word to lookup
  as an argument to the command or it will otherwise use the word
  under the cursor.

*:Thesaurus*

- :Thesaurus [word] - This command behaves the same as :Dictionary but
  looks up the word via thesaurus.reference.com.

While these commands can be quite useful, you may notice one thing is
absent. By default eclim does not provide any mappings that allow you
to visually select the text to lookup.  However the functions that the
above commands rely upon have been built to support this.  All you
need to do is define mappings like the following.

>

   vmap <leader>gn :call eclim#web#Google('', 0, 1)<cr>
   vmap <leader>gq :call eclim#web#Google('', 1, 1)<cr>

<


This example creates mappings to allow you to visually select some
text and submit that text as a query to google.  In this example
<leader>gn will submit the text unquoted, and <leader>gq will submit
the text in quoted form.

See :help mapleader for more info on using <leader> for command
mappings.

The above examples can be modified for clusty or wikipedia as well.
The dictionary and thesaurus commands don't support this feature as
they both operate on single words.

vim:ft=eclimhelp